On Company headed paper (Replace our Logo)






1. TRAVEL POLICY

1.1 Overview

This Policy establishes guidelines governing the expenditure incurred when Colleagues are required to travel on Company business.

Travel and related expenses form a substantial part of the Company's total expenditure and it is essential that we manage these costs effectively.

The Policy and Procedures contained in this Handbook are designed to strike a balance between effective cost control and ensuring that all Colleagues arrive at their destinations in relative comfort allowing them to carry out their work.

1.2 Objectives

Ensure all Colleagues have a clear and consistent understanding of Policies and Procedures for business travel and entertainment.

Provide business travellers with a reasonable level of service and comfort at the lowest possible cost.

Maximise the Company's ability to negotiate discounted rates with preferred suppliers and travel expenses.

1.3 Scope

This Travel Policy applies to all Colleagues of the Company.

Managers may, at their discretion, impose greater control than required by this Policy but never less.

1.4 Responsibility and Enforcement

The traveller is responsible for complying with the Travel Policy in place at any point in time.  The Company will regularly review travel costs and expenses to ensure policy is being adhered to and costs kept to a minimum.

Travellers who do not comply with this Travel Policy may be subject to delay or withholding of reimbursement. 

Abuse of the Travel Policy could lead to disciplinary action being taken.

When a traveller does not book the lowest air fare, accommodation or car rental rate offered, the Company's Business Travel Booking Supplier will note the Policy exception and include this in the monthly exception reports that are reviewed by the Accounts Department and the Finance Director.  This will show if the lowest fare could not be booked due to availability, timing or other reason(s).


1.5 Who to Call on Travel Policy Issues

Any questions, concerns or suggestions regarding this Travel Policy may be directed to the Human Resources Department.

Your co-operation in implementing this Policy and consequently achieving the objectives is appreciated.

1.6 Travel Arrangements

1.6.1 Reservation Procedures

Travellers should make reservations as early as possible to take advantage of advance purchase discounts.

1.6.2 Air Travel

Making Air Travel Reservations

The cheapest possible flights should be investigated and purchased whenever possible.

Airline Class of Service

All air travel must be Economy Class.

Colleagues are expected to use the lowest logical air fare available.

Business Class is acceptable when it does NOT cost more than the lowest available Economy fare.

Lowest Air fare Definition

Travellers are expected to book the lowest logical air fare as determined by the Company's Business Travel Booking Supplier. 

Airline Frequent Flyer Programmes

Travelling Colleagues may retain frequent flyer programme benefits.  However, participation in these programmes must not influence flight selection resulting in incremental costs to the Company beyond the lowest available air fare, as defined in this Policy.  The Company will not pay for the membership of such programmes or incremental fees.

Cancellations

When a trip is cancelled after the ticket has been issued, the traveller should enquire about using the same ticket for future travel.  

Unused/Void Airline Tickets

Unused airline tickets or flight coupons must never be discarded or destroyed as these documents may have a cash value.  To expedite refunds, unused or partially used airline tickets MUST be returned immediately to the Company's Business Travel booking Supplier.

1.7 Hotel Accommodation

1.7.1 Making Hotel Reservations

Individuals should find the best possible price on hotel stays, where ever possible. 

1.7.2 Hotel Upgrades

Travellers are entitled to stay in a single room with a private bath or a double room for single occupancy where the Company "double for single" rate reflects a single room price within area budgets.

Travellers may accept room upgrades to suites or executive floor rooms:

* If the upgrade is at no additional cost to the Company

* At the Colleague's personal expense


1.7.3 Long-term Hotel Stays

Travellers staying a week or longer should enquire about weekly/long-term discounts.


1.7.4 Hotel Spending Guidelines

Appropriate and cost effective hotel accommodation should be sought. Accommodation limits are £100 outside London and £150 within the M25. 

Travellers MUST use Company-preferred rates whenever possible.

1.7.5 Room Guarantee

Unless otherwise instructed, all rooms will be guaranteed for late arrival.

1.7.6 Hotel Cancellation Procedures

Travellers are responsible for cancelling hotel rooms and must contact the Supplier directly to cancel or amend bookings.

When a booking is not cancelled and the traveller does not show up, charges will apply.  

1.8 Subsistence

Only the person who is away from their normal place of work overnight can claim £25 dinner allowance. 
Expenses will not be authorised for local Colleagues who have chosen to meet a visitor socially.
Expenses (including accommodation) will not be authorised for Colleagues who have chosen to extend their travel/stay to meet others socially.
Whilst working away from your principal place of work, you are permitted to claim up to £5 per day for lunch expenses, provided a receipt is obtained.

1.9 Car Transport

If there is more than one traveller at any one time, it may be cost-effective to hire a car. The average cost of car hire for one day is £25.00. If this is practical, please obtain authorisation from your Line Manager. 

Claims for business mileage incurred in private vehicles will be paid at 45 pence per mile. All claims must be counter-signed by an appropriate Line Manager and sent to the Accounts Department. 

Business mileage does not include travel from home to your normal place of work.  Where you are not travelling to your normal place of work, any mileage claims should be reduced by the number of miles you would travel from your home to get to your normal workplace and you will then be reimbursed through expenses for any additional business miles travelled.

1.10 Taxis

An official receipt must support all claims for taxi fares.  Please note that taxis should be booked via the locally agreed company where available.

When reasonable, public transport should be used for journeys in major cities, e.g. underground transport in London if practicable.

1.11 Rail Travel

Rail travel should, wherever possible, be booked at the best possible rate.

1.11.1 Class of Service - Rail Travel
         
Domestic rail travel will be in Standard Class.

First class/reserved seating for domestic rail service may be utilised:

* When upgrade is at no extra cost
* At the traveller's expense
* In extreme circumstances when travel is essential and seats are not available standard class

1.12 Car Parking

The Company will accept receipted car parking expenses for any Colleague working away from their normal place of work. 

1.13 Non-Reimbursable Travel Related Expenses

Travel between home and normal place of work, traffic offences incurred whilst on Company business and items purchased for personal use that have no direct business purpose will not be reimbursed.

This list is not exhaustive, and we expect all Colleagues to use their common sense when booking travel and to aim to keep costs to a minimum at all times. Specific queries should be directed to your Line Manager in the first instance, or the Human Resource Department or Accounts Department.

